Hello Everyone, 

This is Balu, 

I do have 4.5 years of experience as DevOps engineer current working for Accenture. I am currently working on a Health Care project named Med Fusion. Which is a Leading Health care giant in United states of America. I do work closely with our Developers and QA in the team and follow DevOps methodology by implementing of 4 Cs like Continuous Integration, Continuous Development/Testing, Continuous Deployment and Continuous Delivery. 

As part of my Role, I undergo these responsibilities daily, 
1. Creating and managing the branches in GitHub.
2. Merging the code from branches to master. 
3. Giving accesses to developers based on the need for their code committing repos.
4. Monitoring the Jenkins builds. if any build got failed try to resolve those issues for future.
5. Checking the health of instances using Nagios like Monitoring tools.
6. On the AWS Side based on the requirement I would Create the instances (EC2), Look for any VPC changes and provide User accesses to their own Console.  Also, I have knowledge on S3, VPC, Route 53, Certificate Manager,  IAM, RDS, CloudWatch. 
7. Work closely with team or developers whether if they have any blockers and resolve those issue ASAP.

As part of this Role, I did gain some knowledge on various tools like, 
GIT, GITHUB, Maven, SonarQube, Jenkins, Apache Tomcat6.x/7.x, JIRA, Nagios 4.x/5.x, Linux/Unix, Java, J2EE, Docker, AWS, Ansible, Terraform 

Flow of our project lies like this: 
Code Checkins into Git/Github – Triggers a Build in Maven – Quick Checks done using SonarCube – Hosting done on an AWS EC2 Instance on Apache tomcat server in form a Docker Container. 





Git: 
Distributed Version control tool 

It consists of 3 stages/phase in Git: 
Working Area 
Staging/Indexing Area 
Local repo

Basic Commands: 
•	git init - Initialize git (Creates a empty local repo)  
•	git clone "Remote Repo URL" --- Local repo will be clone with Remote repo
•	git status - Shows status of any upstaging/working area files available or not 
•	git add . - Add all the files in staging area
•	git commit -m "Message" - Commits files in staging area to local repo  
•	git push -u origin master - Add all the files from local repo to remote repo 
•	git fetch -- Fetch all the files from remote repo to local repo 
•	git pull - Pull all files from remote repo to working directory
•	git revert -revertid – Revert back changes based on the revertid provided

Github: 
Github accounts are remote. 
Use: Code needs to be stored into a centralized distributed for easy access or not to be lost in case of crash of machines. 
•	git remote add <name> <url> - To Configuring the Remote Repo 

Jenkins: 
CI/CD tool 
Or Build and Release tool 
We can create Freestyle jobs or pipeline jobs from Jenkins
We can create jobs in 2 different ways: 
	

Scripted Syntax 
node('master') 
{ 
stage('Say Hello') { 
echo 'Hello World' 
}
stage('Hello') { 
echo 'Hello World' 
}
}
	Declarative Syntax
pipeline {
    agent none 
    stages {
        stage('Compile') {
            steps {
                
            }
        }
        stage('Build') {
            steps {
                
            }
        }
    }
}

Maven: 
Build automation tool, can also be used to check the missing dependencies  
Stages of Maven: 
1.	Validate
2.	Compile
3.	Test
4.	Package
5.	Verify 
6.	Install 
7.	Deploy
POM.xml file is the heart of the Maven. Based on what has been written in the file a Target folder would be created. 
SonarQube: 
SonarQube is a Code Quality Assurance tool that collects and analyzes source code and provides reports for the code quality of your project. (Checking Hardcoded Values on variables, Missing Closures/Semicolons (Coding errors), Security Issues (Vulnerability) etc.,)
SonarQube platform consists of four components: analyzers, server, plugins installed on the server and, a database.

Apache Tomcat: 
Tomcat runs a HTTP web server environment in which Java code can run.
Nginx - Another hosting server (We can do load balancing)





Interview Questions: 
Public Sapient 
--------------
Command to create Maven Sample Project 
Ans: mvn archetype:generate -DgroupId=ToolsQA -DartifactId=DemoMavenProject

Before running a Maven project, how to make sure whether if the server has internet connectivity or not? 
Ans: Go to this location:\Users\your_user_name\.m2\repository.
In the above mentioned path check the folder has few executable jar files or not.
If the required jar file is not available for your project, you need internet.

How to integrate Maven with Nexus for storing artifacts? 
Creation of a hosted repository for snapshots and releases.
Creation of a proxy repository pointing to Maven Central.
Creation of a group repository.
Integration of Maven with Nexus repositories. 
	Nexus repositories are integrated with Maven using the Mavens settings.xml file. 
	This file is usually present in ($HOME/.m2, in case of Jenkins /var/lib/Jenkins/.m2) for user-level configuration. 
	Configurations in this file are applied for all the Maven builds initiated by the user.
Configurations in the project pom.xml file.
Configuration of the Jenkins release build.

Alternates for SonarQube? 
Embold.
Coverity.
Checkmarx.
PyCharm.

What are the Quality gates in SonarCube? 
A quality gate is the best way to enforce a quality policy in your organization. 
We define a set of Boolean conditions based on measure thresholds against which projects are measured.

Differences between Bitbucket and Github? 
Both Cloud/Remote repos
Both are supported by Git 
Github is free vs Bitbucket isn't 
Bitbucket owned by Atlassian which is very trust worthy 

Best pratice for Git 
Individual branches for each developer, Dev, QA, Pre-Prod, Production(Master)

Are you resposnible for Deployment of your project ? 
Yes, I do we have specific release notes written stating which servers need to be turned down, what commands to be executed 
Intitally one of my colleauge used to do it and he showed me how to do the entire procedure 
Now I am comfortable for deploying it by myself 

Different deployment strategies you are aware of, which is most used ? 
Recreate: Version A is terminated then version B is rolled out.
Ramped (also known as rolling-update or incremental): Version B is slowly rolled out and replacing version A.
Blue/Green: Version B is released alongside version A, then the traffic is switched to version B.
Canary: Version B is released to a subset of users, then proceed to a full rollout.
A/B testing: Version B is released to a subset of users under specific condition.
Shadow: Version B receives real-world traffic alongside version A and doesn’t impact the response.

Mostly used Blue Green Deployment 

what is your application Front End, Middle and Back End? 
Front End: HTML CSS JS
Back End: MSSQL Database 
Middle ware: Java + Rest API

We have a EC2 instance, Reaching 100% utilization before it goes down? Tell me the ways  
1. Create new machine with desired size and move the traffic to this machine 
2. Auto Scalling by creating a New AMI for the existing server - Set the Target value for CPU when it goes more than a value - Create a new instance and redirect the traffic

Can we change the private ip of the EC2 while the instance is running ? 
The private IP address of an Amazon EC2 instance will never change. 
It will not change while an instance is running. It will not change while an instance is stopped. 
You cannot change a private IP address.

How can I give the list of S3 buckets which are used for an Audit in AWS? 
Provide the CloudTrail information for the bucket which includes all the logs 

What is Buffer in AWS? 
Buffer helps to synchronize different components, which gets requests and processes it in an unsynchronized way. 
It manages the balance between various components in order to maintain the speed and provide a faster service. 
In AWS buffer also ensures efficiency over traffic or load.

How many VPC can be created ? 
you can have up to five VPCs in a region

How many Subnets are created in a VPC? 
Currently you can create 200 subnets per VPC

Does RDS is created in same availability zone or different? 
Yes. Your standby is automatically provisioned in a different Availability Zone of the same Region as your DB instance primary.

Command to ping a server using Ansible?
ansible all -m ping -v


Virtusa: 
Write a groovy script where one stage result is dependent on the other one stage? 
A) If you want to run only some steps, depending on the step you performed you should write test result into variable. And you can analyse value of that variable before running steps.

stage('Build') {
    // build application
}

boolean testPassed = true
stage('Test') {
    try{
        sh 'mvn test'
    }catch (Exception e){
        testPassed = false
    }
}

stage('Push Artifacts') {
    if(testPassed){
        //push to artifactory
    }
}

what are the different ways by which i can trigger a cicd pipeline? 
A) One way is by directly writing a pipeline script on Jenkins, and the other way is by retrieving the Jenkins file from SCM


